hello everyone its Alaina and I'm back
with another video I recently posted a
picture of my revision schedules on
Instagram and a lot of you guys messaged
me and asked how exactly I schedule my
revision from my finals so I thought I'd
make a short video where I explain my
revision plans and I also have all the
templates for the plants that I'm
showing you guys linked in the infobox
below
so yeah let's get started all my
revision planning is in this folder and
that's where I have all my plans and
everything is in here so that I have it
all in one place and this is something
that I find really really important like
it doesn't matter if you plan digitally
or on paper create one folder and keep
everything in there so that you can
always find your plans because if you're
already struggling to find your plan
you're gonna be less motivated to even
start so when you open this up you can
see here my big plan and my exam dates
and then here are my individual plans so
let's just first quickly look at the big
plan so here I have my exam dates
because um you always need to remember
your exam dates and I don't know I feel
like when I have them written down it's
a bit of like a motivation because I
know I'm working towards that date but
in a way it's also a good reminder like
why you have to stay on track because
you know dose days are coming and
they're not changing and then I have my
big plan here with all my papers on it
and this is my big overview so here I
have all my four and a half papers
listed and for one all the things are
ticked off already because um for this
half paper I'm already done so for the
other four papers I have to take off the
notes the study notes revision one two
and three and practice questions so I
have M notes and study notes because my
notes are notes on readings and my
supervision notes and my lecture notes
etc so I just make sure that they're all
in order that all the further reading
that was set is done and was added to
dose notes and then I create my study
notes from these notes so I have a
different set of notes from which I
study than the ones that I take in class
because my notes in class are much
bigger and you know a lot more detail is
included that I necessarily need for my
exams and for your exams you need to
summarize so while you may take maybe
ten sentences of notes on a journal
article
you have to summarize that Journal
article in one sentence to study because
ever watched if you have ten sentences
for each journal article you're never
going to finish studying so that's why I
have a different set of study notes than
my class notes and then I also have a
ton of different schedules in this file
so first of all there is a big schedule
which is my time schedule where all my
subjects are included so this is a
schedule for every week until my exams
so it really just goes on for like quite
a while and basically this schedule is
color coded and it contains what I'm
going to do each day so you can see here
there are a few times which are marked
blue and those are my buffer time so
those are the times where I'm gonna do
whatever I didn't finish in no sessions
which I plan and yeah hopefully I won't
need them so if I don't need them I get
free time or I can work ahead so that I
can have more buffer times at once I
just decide what I'm gonna do if based
on you know how far I am whenever I get
to them but basically this schedule is
color coded by paper you can see down
here under the table I have my subjects
and I just color code everything that
I'm gonna do according to the paper that
I'm doing it for so for example notes
supervision wanted to is marked in this
turquoise color so I know it's going to
be for criminal law or if something is
marked red then I know it's gonna be for
civil law and I find that's just to be a
little bit easier and when I work with
colors because then I saved myself some
writing in this table and it just looks
less complicated and less overwhelming
and I of course also marked down when
I'm gonna revise things and when I'm
gonna you know have my exams etc and
basically this table just goes on for
like quite a while but I find it really
useful to make one big table at the
start of your revision and yes this is a
little bit of work because you do have
to go free calendar and check when are
you gonna have one when it are going to
be certain events so whenever I know
that you know I'm gonna be away from
Cambridge or something and I have to put
this in here so the discipline doesn't
become unrealistic but I think it's
really really worth the time and it
doesn't take too much time I think you
can definitely do it in about 40 minutes
and it is really worth the effort
because then you
exactly how many days you have leading
up to your exam study and what you're
gonna do each day and I find it to be
super super useful because that way you
know exactly then you can tackle
everything that's exam relevant and that
you have enough time to study at all and
what's really really important is that
you give yourself enough buffer times I
think I personally give myself probably
a bit too much buffer time at times but
I'm really really grateful to have it
because sometimes you just don't get for
something even though you thought you'd
get through it a lot quicker and then
you're really grateful to have buffer
times so give yourself a lot of buffer
times because otherwise this plan is
going to become this overwhelming thing
where you're getting really stressed if
you can't finish something in time and
you don't want that to happen in
addition to this big time plan I also
have individual plans for my subjects
now these aren't time plans or schedule
but rather these are lists of what I
have to do so what I did to create these
is I basically and went over the
syllabus of each of my papers and then I
noted down what I need to know on the
syllabus and this is something that I
think is really really important and
that you really should do before you
make a big schedule like this one where
you planning your time look at the
syllabus of your paper and I think this
is really important for any University
class because sometimes not everything
that's on the syllabus is necessarily
covered in lectures or supervisions so
you may have to study some things that
you don't even know about yet and the
syllabus is the most important document
in the end because this is what your
examiner is based their questions on so
if there's something on the syllabus
even if you haven't extensively covered
it in lectures it's absolutely fair game
for the examiner to ask the question on
that and obviously you will have a
choice of questions but sometimes some
of the things on the syllabus may just
be extensions of what you already
covered so really reading up on one or
two journal articles and that can be
really really helpful and at least here
for a law I found that most of the
further reading helps you to cover
everything that's on the syllabus
there's long as you do all the readings
that they recommend I think you should
definitely get through it so what I did
is I basically took the syllabus and I
broke it apart into big topics and then
subtopics so the big topics are just you
know the more general bullet points and
then the subtopics are the more do
versions of vids and like two different
aspects of these big topics and then I
know how I need to study them and for
this i have the same overview as i had
for all my papers so notes study notes
revision one two and free and practice
questions
now i want to explain why i have this
and why i also have the big overview so
the big overview that i showed you guys
at the start with all my four subject
which was this table which looked a lot
less intimidating than my entire
syllabus of one subject and so the
reason i have this table is to just have
an overview of how far i am with all my
subjects so if i manage to take off an
entire column here then i can take it
off in the big table and the reason I'm
doing is just to you know see how far I
am in general and should I put it all
into perspective of the big picture and
to not lose myself in these big tables
here because these tables go on for a
few pages and it's easy to lose an
overview here that's why I like to have
a bigger overview table I also have my
objectives and aims of the course here
and I would highly recommend looking at
these when you look at the syllabus off
your paper because they may seem a bit
boring and a bit general but sometimes
you can guess a little bit what the
skills are if you want to see in an exam
so for example if one section of aims
and objectives for one paper emphasizes
applying legal concepts to real life
situations a lot then you know that
you're probably going to see a lot more
problem questions than essay questions
on that paper and very often you already
know that for the subject but I think
it's just good to look at it again and
you also see what the examiner is going
to expect to see in your paper and then
you keep that in mind while you do
practice questions now I just quickly
wanted to talk about why I have revision
one trimmin free here so the reason I do
this is because I like to read over
things free times and then know that I
myself as a learner I really learned
very well when I write things down when
I engage with it and then when I read
over it and read it and read it and read
it and I very often tend to write next
to it just you know some keywords so
what I do is I just take a piece of
paper
and I just write down some key words
while I read few texts sometimes I also
read it out loud to hear it again
but I know that I'm someone who reads
really well through reading notes that I
myself made and there are at best hand
written for some reason I learn better
when it's handwritten I know there are
studies that show that if you studied
something and that you actually wrote
yourself in your own handwriting
you're more likely to remember it so
probably that's why so that's just what
I like to do and I like to go over
things free times because I just found
that after I go for something for free
times I usually have crossed all the key
detail and anything that I don't
remember after three times it's probably
not as relevant as I may have thought it
is because usually once you start
studying you're so realized what a
really important concept and if I put
any unnecessary details in there if I
don't know them after three revisions I
don't think I will need them in my final
section which is practice questions
now it's also really important aiming is
that you actually give yourself time to
do practice questions now I give myself
a lot more time for revision that I do
for practice questions because I'm
someone who learns a lot better from
revision and free breakfast questions
but I know this is not true for most
people I know most people actually learn
better when they have to use their
knowledge I'm just someone who really
likes to think about concepts a lot and
give herself a lot of time to understand
them and really play with them in my
brain that's just how I work I don't
know why but I personally learned better
if I think about it for a few hours
Robert and do five practice questions in
that time but I know I still need to do
some practice questions to prepare
myself for the exam format and to also
you know know how I apply these concepts
so that's why it's also really important
that you give yourself enough time to
then do based practice questions so yeah
that's how I structured my revision so
just to explain to you guys really
quickly the system again so that we can
wrap it all together I have one folder
where I keep all my things and I always
have my exam days right here and then a
big overview table to track my progress
in all my papers and this is just a big
picture table and then I have one big
time table where I scheduled all
revision sessions for each paper and
this is a very detailed weekly schedule
and I also always take the schedule for
the week that we are in out of this and
put it on my desk so that I can see it
every day I'm sorry I don't forget what
I should be doing and then I also broke
down the syllabi off all of my papers
into tables to know what exactly I need
to do for each of my subjects so there I
always have a big topic section where I
just have an overview off the key themes
and then I broke them apart into
subtopic and then I just tick off when I
did my notes study notes revise it three
times and did practice questions and
that's pretty much what I do for every
subject and yeah that's how I'm studying
for my finals here at Cambridge in my
first year so yeah I hope this is gonna
be a good way of studying for my finals
obviously this is my first time that I'm
taking exams in law school so I don't
yet know if this is gonna be a
successful method but this is very
similar to how I studied for my finals
in high school and I know back then
having an organized study schedule was
key and it really helped me a lot so um
yeah I guess I'm just hoping that the
strategy is gonna work out here as well
I guess my plan for now is to follow my
study schedule and hope that it's gonna
get me from my exams so yeah I hope you
guys found this video helpful if you
guys want to have any of the templates
for the plants that I showed I'm gonna
link them Indian per box below and I
hope you guys found this video helpful
thank you guys so much for watching have
a nice day bye